{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red165\green165\blue165;\red204\green204\blue204;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
----\par
The opn source license for Apache 2.0 states that ___, being ____\par
\par
\cf1 2. Grant of Copyright License.\par
\par
Subject to the terms and conditions of this \b License (being these following terms and conditions for use, reproduction and distribution)\b0 , each \b Contributor( the licensor, any individual, and any Legal Entity who is recieving contribution by respective individual, who is incorporated within the Work, meaning the work of authorship made available under the Lecense, as indecated by a copyright notice that is included to the work.)\b0  hereby grants to \b You (being an individual or Legal Entity using this license as permitted)\b0  a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare\b  Derivative Works (any work derived from \ul the Work, \ulnone in which revisions or modifications represent an original work of authorship. Derivative works shall not (1) Include works that remain seperable from or (2) merely link to or bind by name to the interfaces of the Work and other Derivative Works.) \b0 of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in \b Source\b0  or \b Object\b0  form.\par
\cf0\par
<strong>The Grant of copyright License:</strong>\par
\par
This License is an outline of the terms and conditions for use, reproduction and distribution of Apache 2.0.\par
Subject to the terms and conditions to this License, each \b Contributor\b0  hereby grants \b You (\b0 being an individual or Legal Entity using this license as permitted\b )\b0  a copyright license which is  perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, and irrevocable.\par
\par
This copyright license allows you to:\par
<ul>\par
<li>\b reproduce\b0  the Work or  Derivative Works </li>\par
<li>\b prepare Derivative Works \b0 of the original Work,</li>\par
<li>\b publicly display or perform \b0 the Work or  Derivative Works </li> \par
<li>\b sublicense\b0  and \b distribute \b0 the Work or  Derivative Works </li>\par
</ul>\par
 \par
Any of these actions can be done in \b Source\b0  or \b Object\b0  form.\par
\par
\par
\par
A Contributor is  defined as:\par
<ul>\par
\b <li>the licensor\b0 </li>\b\par
<li>any individual\b0 </li>\b\par
<li>and any Legal Entity who is recieving contribution by respective individual\b0 </li>\par
</ul>\b\par
who is incorporated within the work of authorship made available under the License, as indecated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work.\par
\par
\par
"Source" form means the \i preferred form for making modifications\i0 , including  software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.\par
 \par
"Object" form means any form \i resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source form\i0 , including compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.\b0\par
****************************************************\par
\i 3. Grant of Patent License.\par
\par
Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to:\par
 make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work. \par
Any patent licenses granted to You under this License will be invoked only if You institute patent litigation against the Contributors with the Work of said Contributors. \par
If you allege that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes any patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under \b this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed\b0 .\par
\i0\par
\cf2 If You institute patent litigation against any \b entity\b0  (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) \par
\par
If you allege that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes any patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under \b this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed\b0 .\par
\par
where such license applies only to those patent claims \b licensable \b0 by \par
such Contributor(one granting license) that are necessarily infringed by their \b Contribution\b0 (s)\par
 (alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) )\par
with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted.\par
\par
necessairly infringed == no way to avoid infringement\par
\cf0\par
\par
 ==============================\par
\par
\cf2 4. Redistribution.\par
\par
You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works in any way you please as long as you meet the following conditions:\par
\par
 *   You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works \b a copy of this License\b0 ;     *You must cause any modified files to carry \b prominent notices stating that You changed the files\b0 ; \par
*In any Derivative Works that You distribute, You must keep all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices of the Work in the Source form.\par
\par
*If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, You must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within any "NOTICE" text file in at least one of the following places: \par
\par
-within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works;\par
 -within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,\par
 -within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. \par
\par
The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License.  You may add Your own attribution notices as long as they cannot be construed as modifying the License.\par
\par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications, as well as provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole; provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.\par
\cf0\par
5.\cf2  Submission of Contributions.\par
\par
If you wish to submit a Contribution to the Licensor to be included in the Work, You shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions. \par
If you executed any seperate license agreements with the Licensor regarding any Contributions, said agreements cannot be superseded or modified.\par
\cf0  \par
\par
\par
6.\cf2  Trademarks.\par
\par
This License does not grant permission to\par
 use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, \par
except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\cf0\par
7. \cf2 Disclaimer of Warranty. \par
\par
This work is provded "AS IS" without any warranties or conditions of any kind, unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing.\par
You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\cf0\par
\par
8. \cf2 Limitation of Liability.\par
\par
Any Contributor will not,in any event, be liable to You for damages.\par
This includes any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work,\par
(including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages.\par
\cf0\par
9. \cf2 Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability.\par
\par
While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works, You may choose to give or sell acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. \par
  \par
However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor.\par
You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
\cf0\par
 \par
\par
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\par
APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work\par
\par
    To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include the brackets!) The text should be enclosed in the appropriate comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a file or class name and description of purpose be included on the same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier identification within third-party archives.\par
\par
       Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]\par
\par
       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");\par
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.\par
       You may obtain a copy of the License at\par
\par
         {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 }}{\fldrslt{http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\par
       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software\par
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,\par
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.\par
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and\par
       limitations under the License.\par
\par
\par
}
 